DOCSP-45770: atlas search queries (#197)
mongodb/docs-php-library: source/aggregation/vector-search.txt

   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to perform searches on your documents
by using the Atlas Vector Search feature. The {+library-short+} allows you to
perform Atlas Vector Search queries by using the :ref:`Aggregation Builder API
<TODO DOCSP-43919>`.

.. note:: Deployment Compatibility

     You can use the Atlas Search feature only when
     you connect to MongoDB Atlas clusters. This feature is not
     available for self-managed deployments.

To learn more about Atlas Vector Search, see the :atlas:`Overview
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` in the
Atlas documentation. The Atlas Vector Search implementation for the
{+library-short+} internally uses the ``$vectorSearch`` aggregation operator
to perform queries. To learn more about this operator, see the
:atlas:`$vectorSearch
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#syntax>` reference in the
Atlas documentation.

.. note::

   You might not be able to use the methods described in this guide for
   every type of Atlas Vector Search query. For more complex use cases, you can
   create standard aggregation pipelines. To learn more, see the

>    :ref:`php-aggregation` guide.

Reviewer: It looks like you have took this statement from the [Laravel package](https://github.com/mongodb/laravel-mongodb/pull/3255/files#diff-46a82652f3f916c449934e197b5a991f5c0b86a88ade23c3d8acb32cc378cd31R45-R48). But for the PHPLIB, the aggregation builder can be used to do everything.

Author: This is the situation in which I asked for a way to describe the BSON document based agg pipeline syntax. If you're saying that there aren't any certain edge cases that might need that as an option, then I'll remove this sentence.

Reviewer: I thought you were talking about Laravel.
You can indicate that the Builder is not the only way to write the search aggregation pipeline, and that it's possible to use simple arrays.

Author: I'll leave that content for https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-43919!

.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, semantic, text, embeddings

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to perform searches on your documents
by using the Atlas Vector Search feature. The {+library-short+} allows you to
perform Atlas Vector Search queries by using the :ref:`Aggregation Builder API
<TODO DOCSP-43919>`. This guide provides examples of how to use the
{+library-short+} to perform Atlas Vector Search queries.

.. note:: Deployment Compatibility

     You can use the Atlas Search feature only when
     you connect to MongoDB Atlas clusters. This feature is not
     available for self-managed deployments.

To learn more about Atlas Vector Search, see the :atlas:`Overview
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` in the
Atlas documentation. The Atlas Vector Search implementation for the
{+library-short+} internally uses the ``$vectorSearch`` aggregation operator
to perform queries. To learn more about this operator, see the
:atlas:`$vectorSearch
</atlas-vector-search/vector-search-stage/#syntax>` reference in the
Atlas documentation.

.. note::

>    You might not be able to use the methods described in
>    this guide for every type of Atlas Search query. For more complex use
>    cases, you can follow the standard way to create aggregation
>    pipelines in the {+library-short+}. To learn more, see the
>    :ref:`php-aggregation` guide.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:
```suggestion
   You might not be able to use the methods described in
   this guide for every type of Atlas Search query. For more complex use
   cases, you can use standard aggregation
   pipelines from {+library-short+}. To learn more, see the
   :ref:`php-aggregation` guide.
```
